getting bad reviews,
um, having people question some of your
stuff. It is part of the big ride and if
you're lucky, you get to stay on the
ride.
I'm a former music journalist, and to
me, Cameron Crow's career always seemed
impossibly cool. Before he directed
movies like Jerry Magcguire, writing
iconic lines like me the money,
>> and before he directed Say Anything and
wrote the screenplay for Fast Times at
Ridgemont High, Crow was a journalist
for Rolling Stone magazine in the 70s
when he was still just a teenager. He
went on the road with musicians like Led
Zeppelin, The Eagles, and David Bowie,
which his mom understandably wasn't too
thrilled about at the time. Those
experiences became the basis for one of
his most beloved movies, Almost Famous,
with dialogue lifted from his real life,
like
>> It's all happening.
>> And they're at the heart of Crow's new
memoir, The Uncool. But the book's tight
focus means there's still a lot left
untapped, like his divorce from Hartley
guitarist Nancy Wilson, and how the last
few movies he made just didn't land. So,
there was a lot to talk about. Here's my
conversation with Cameron Crowe.
Cameron, thank you for taking the time
to talk with me today.
>> So great to be doing this and thanks for
for you taking the time. Um, before we
get into the actual conversation, I just
want to uh show something to you. So, in
Almost Famous, there's a scene where uh
the character of Lester Bangs, played by
Philip Seymour Hoffman, is in a uh sort
of in with a radio station DJ. And
there's one moment where he he pulls out
an album by the uh progressive rock band
Yes. and says no and quickly puts it
back in into the uh uh racks. And uh the
idea of like yes, no, for some reason
that that lingered in my head. So, you
know, so this is I know in the in the
film you used you used uh fragile I
think not tales from topographic ocean
but
>> you know so so I was I was thinking
about that yes logo and then I had a
t-shirt made because
>> no is no the t-shirt
>> it's
no the t-shirt
>> in the style of the yes logo
>> yes I don't sell these so there's
>> that is fantastic
>> yes but that was inspired by that brief
Yes. No. In your film. So, thank you for
that.
>> I love that. It was very Lester. He was
on such a role about like progressive
Prague rock and uh you know, it was a it
was lowhanging fruit for us on that
scene,
>> you know. So, so the the memoir overlaps
with the almost famous story in a way.
Uh um yeah. And you know, both in terms
of of the beginning of the of your
career and and some of the family
dynamics that that you were living
through at the time, particularly with
with your mom. Um,
>> but Almost Famous, I think it came out
almost exactly 25 years ago. You've been
thinking about this this part of your
life, these these formative uh
experiences for a long time now. You
know, like you've really been working
through this material for
>> years and years and years. Um,
>> what are you a packrat?
>> What are you still trying to figure out?
I think you're maybe an emotional
packrat. What are you still figuring
out?
>> Yeah, really well said. Um, well, I I
love that time when everything meant
life or death emotionally and you really
felt things and you hadn't built up like
many layers of leather like skin like,
"Oh, yeah." When I first started
directing, one of the things that really
drove me crazy was when people would say
like, "That's not how it's done. Let me
let me show you how it works." and they
didn't seem to have joy. And uh and I I
wanted to to never forget the joyful
experience of following your dream and
finding your [__] voice in the world,
which to me is sometimes a youthful
experience and sometimes it doesn't
happen until late in your life. But I
loved the journey of of finding that
kind of comfortable place where you know
like this is who I am as a writer. This
may even be who I am as a person. So,
um, I wanted to make sure that I wrote
something that captured that feeling,
not through the mists of time, not
through like a thick wall, a thick, you
know, glass wall where you see, yes,
that's how it used to be. I wanted to
write something about the time when
Bowie was still alive, Glenn Fry was
still alive, and I wrote it for pure
pleasure, and then eventually I knew it
was going to get published. But I I
pressed send on the manuscript the night
before the Palisades fire uh showed up
to to I thought consume our house. So I
remember thinking like, okay, I sent it
in. If I lose everything, I did write
the thing that kind of captured the the
sum total of all those memories and
everything I kept. So I'm really proud
of it. So, c can you put me back in a in
a moment when you were, you know, 19
years old
doing what you were doing and you
thought, um, well, it's all happening
really. It started before that. It
started like when I was 14 and 15 when I
just wanted to get backstage and I had
all these questions like I did way too
much research and stuff and as a fan I
had like a huge notebook generally one
sometimes two full of questions. So I
think like people tended to show pity on
me sometimes standing outside with this
notebook full of questions in a tape
recorder. It's like let's let him in.
And once I was in David, I always found
like the doors would open. Like, you
know, people like Jim Crochi or Glenn
Fry of the Eagles or or these people
whose music I I I really had questions
about were so relieved and happy and
excited that there was somebody who was
actually a fan and knew their music
standing in front of them with a tape
recorder. Turn it on. Let's talk. It was
embarrassing when people would bust me
about my age, but exciting when they
laughed about it and said, "Ask me
whatever you want." So, I just kept
going with it. And what was there
something that you saw in those earliest
days that um sort of made you think
like, "Oh, I'm seeing something that
most people don't get to see."
>> Yeah. The hunger of people that weren't
understood in their own adolescent life.
They they chose music because music
chose them and it was a dayto-day kind
of crusade to like keep keep this life
alive where they were understood. Also,
there wasn't a feeling that rock was
going to last that long. So, there was
that that thing of like, well, we're
making hay while, you know, the
sunshines here. But, uh, I saw a
documentary on the Eagles recently where
Don Henley said, you know, basically, we
don't know what we're going to do when
our real life starts. and you know he's
he's playing this fear and and it's 55
years later. Um so everybody I think was
kind of like on an adventure not knowing
where it would end.
>> When did your real life start? I think
my real life started
when Yanwer called me in to have a
conversation about what I thought was a
congratulations for having gotten Led
Zeppelin for the cover of Rolling Stone.
Led Zeppelin hated Rolling Stone. Led
Zeppelin
were the last band that you would ever
expect to see in Rolling Stone because
because it was a well-known feud. And
they Yan called me in to talk to him.
And in fact, it was, "Yeah, you did
well, but is it a real piece of
writing?" And this was a day where he
had lost his own mentor, Ralph Gleason.
Um, and he kind of was working his way
through a bottle of vodka and didn't
need to see me. Could have blown off the
meeting, but he didn't. And he talked to
me about that. And then he said, "Meet
me at my home." And I met him later at
his home. Somebody gave me a copy of
Joan Ddian's Slouching Towards Bethlehem
and said, um, read some of this stuff
and read read her earlier profile on the
doors. You'll see how to really write
like a real writer. And I was hurt,
but also challenged. And that on the way
back from San Francisco that day was
when my real life started.
>> And so that would have been like 1975 or
so.
>> Five. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Um, also easy for someone to for
an editor to hand a writer a copy of
Joan Ddian's work and say, "Yeah, use
this as your model. Good luck."
>> Well, it was well thumbmed, so I knew I
knew there was some history in uh
connecting with the book, but it was
great and it did inspire me. And her
profile of the doors, where the doors
are waiting for Jim Morrison to show up
is incredible.
>> Yeah. you know everything you need to
know about that band and you feel like
like you had a front row seat
>> to to an experience which is what I
always wanted to do and create that
feeling as a writer. Are there any
experiences from you know those 70s days
that stand out to you as ones that have
lingered with you but you
don't know how they fit into the larger
story of your life?
>> Interesting. Um,
Bowie was like that for me because,
you know, I I cover this thin white Duke
period where he was kind of lost in Los
Angeles and uh
allowed me or asked me to do a profile
on him that took place over that period
of time. And it was a a wild kind of
glimpse of,
you know, his own kind of untethered
brilliance at the time. But um when I
reined him in like 2012
>> Yeah.
>> and asked him about that story.
>> I know where you're going. This is
fascinating. Keep going. Yeah. I know
what you're talking about.
>> And I think I think I made him a little
melancholy and regretful that I had
glimpsed this time when he was
untethered. And so what was fascinating
to me was that time that he was slightly
embarrassed about now was one of my most
formative times. So that was something
that made sense to me later because he
was essentially telling me when I reined
him like, "Hey, I'm glad you had a good
time. I scared myself to death and
almost died in the time that we knew
each other really well, but guess what?
I live in Soho now. I have a beautiful
life. I love my children and I love my
wife and like
see you later."
>> Yes. It's um the exact uh example you're
pointing to is one I was thinking about
also. So it's like, you know, you're
hanging out with David Bowie in 197576
whenever it was when he was in his uh I
believe it was like maybe it's from one
of your profiles of him. He was like
only eating peppers and drinking milk or
something like that and um was thought
he was being pursued by witches. And so
you wrote this uh profile that kind of
has like um an effervescence to it I
would say. And then when you spoke to
Bowie about it later, he, you know, he
basically says, "I was mentally ill."
And and and I thought like from a larger
perspective, um are there things that
sort of your age and perspective um
prevented you from seeing and and
therefore
stopped you from putting into the
stories? I think I always wanted to put
my experience forward in the stories.
Some stuff would be in between the
lines, but mostly I wanted people to
feel what I felt. And I'm still like
that making movies. It's like I want to
create that feeling. And it's the
feeling that music gives you where
you're you you're you're um transported
into this place that's a that's a safe,
glorious kind of place. and you it's not
going to last forever, but you feel it
while you're listening to this music
that that means so much or has touched
your soul. And I wanted to create that
feeling journalistically, too. Like I
wanted you to feel like you were in the
car riding with Bowie. And this this is
the guy that you still don't really know
that well in media. He was a warm,
hugely uh
he could see he kind of saw around
corners musically and culturally and
stuff. And so his his kind of um lost
weekend was was was more
I think amazing than he wanted to
remember. But the point was I I I saw
stuff. I saw glimpses of things and I
tended to write about it a lot. But also
to to put you the reader into a place
where you felt what I felt. Do you think
anything you learned
from doing your job as a journalist you
were then able to bring back to the
relationships with your family?
>> Oo, ask ask me that. Ask me that again.
That's really a great question.
>> Yeah, cuz you were still a young man,
you know, and and young people, you
know, in their late teens, early 20s,
they're still kind of figuring out their
relationships with their siblings, with
their parents. and you were in a
situation where you're sort of
practicing the art of um understanding
someone, of learning how to talk to all
different kinds of people, of knowing
when to listen, when to interject.
>> It's a great question. It's it it
teaches you to listen. It teaches you to
have empathy. It teaches you to see
people in very tough situations and and
you know how to read a room. It's true.
And I I I brought I brought back a lot
of empathy for my parents and for my
sister. Um because I could I could see
the daily battles that everybody
suffered. you know, uh, some people
think because I got published as a young
guy and, you know, had success early on
that was kind of obvious in Rolling
Stone and stuff that like I was a
candid, you know, that life was just
easy and I was just like cruising
through every open door and like, you
know, he he's he's living a Cinderella
story. But it was tough, you know, every
everything is a negotiation in a way to
get yourself access to get yourself in
the position where you can do the
interviews. And the the other thing is
there's always a story behind the story.
>> What was the um story behind the story
with your family?
>> I think because I was the youngest and I
was the last I was for my mom in
particularly in particular it was um
I I I was the one that they could get
everything right with. And so they came
to it with with a certain playbook that
they learned from two children before
me. So, um, you know, they they
reluctantly let me go out into the world
and and fight these battles and win and
lose and stuff. Um, but it was um it was
kind of me coming back
wounded from some of those battles that
provided some of our most important
times where it was just me and my
parents sitting around talking about the
ups and downs of life and how you have
to fight to be optimistic
and how being a warrior for that kind of
optimism is is is a good life to live.
And I think that that I I learned with
them as a as a family.
>> Um, you know, was there's that phrase,
everywhere you go, there you are. You
know, that's what what I'm thinking
about. There's it's it's impossible to
avoid your uh journalism being a
reflection of of who you are. Um, so I'm
going to just nerd out just for a second
on Lester. Lester Bangs is sort of a
legendary uh rock critic. died I think
in the early 80s in in was still a young
man just in in his 30s I think um and
was sort of a a mentor to you and you
know he's played in by Philip Seymour
Hoffman in in Almost Famous and in
Almost Famous there's um you know the
Lester Bangs character functions as kind
of like the the moral conscience of
journalism and and of rock and roll. Um,
and he's he's kind of like the um
Obi-Wan Kenobi figure for for uh the
character of William who's was based on
on on you. And you know, in in the film
and it's also um in in the book too,
Lester sort of cautions you against um
sort of being seduced by the people that
you write about. You know, don't don't
turn in some story that just makes them
look like a cool genius. Um,
>> and so my my question though is, is that
what you ended up doing most of the
time? The the thing that Lester asked
you not to do?
>> Well, this is this is an interesting
thing because the last time I saw
Lester, he the guy who said, "Don't hang
out with the rock stars. Don't make
friends with the rock stars
was was friends with Bill Spooner from
the Tubes." And the last time I saw
Lester, we were hanging out with with
Bill Spooner from that band. And and
Lester had a wonderful relationship with
Bill. And I think what he was saying,
and it's a fair question for sure, is is
like don't sell yourself out. Like
you're going to be seduced. You're going
to do all that. Like yeah, you you can
be a so-called friend. It may not last
forever, but you can be on a on a on a
very kind of like, you know, almost a
confessional basis with somebody.
and um you're not a friend, but you're a
sympathetic listener. And I always felt
like that was a great place to be,
particularly if I loved the band or the
artist I was writing about, cuz I was I
was in heaven. But I think what Lester
was also talking about is like don't try
and join the band. Don't try and be that
person, you know, study that person from
a distance. And then like like I always
wanted to do, I wanted to bring people
along with me. I never thought I could
play guitar or any of that, but I could
spend some time around Jimmy Paige and
maybe get something across that you as a
Led Zeppelin fan would be listening to
like Cashmere and you will have read
this story and you like Cashmere more
because you get where it all came from.
Well, and sort of the in a convoluted
way, part of what I was trying to get at
with the first part of my question is
that, you know, it is the personal
decisions you made were a reflection of
the person you are who is a an an
optimistic person, an idealist and a
fan. And I think if uh a dispic
personality like Lester perhaps were in
those same situations, he probably would
have come back with very different
stories.
>> And he did. And he would he would mix it
up with Lou Reed. He would he would like
come at these people and sometimes this
is another thing that's like a choice
you make as a journalist. Like is the
story about you or is it a story about
what you learned when you were there?
>> Um would you say you're friends with
Joanie Mitchell?
>> I am friends with Joanie Mitchell
proudly
>> and how
>> uh in the in the best way. Um she was my
best interview at Rolling Stone. the 79
interview that we did um when she was
putting out the Mingus album was by far
the best interview I did there and uh
she's she's she she speaks uh in third
draft and so it's really fun to talk
with her.
>> Um and where do things stand with the
biopic you're making about her?
>> We're going to make it next year. Um
there's not a lot I can say about it.
Soon I'll be able to speak more kind of
definitively about who's in it and how
we're going to do it and everything, but
it came from a very um interesting
place. I was working on another script
and another project and I loved writing
about Joanie and so she was coming, you
know, back into the world a little bit
after her aneurysm, but she was putting
out an archival set of her earliest
stuff which she always said like I'm
never going to put that stuff out. It's
it's naive. Uh but then I think she and
history kind of said, "Go back and check
that stuff out." So she was putting out
the the archive. And I I said, "Yeah,
sure. I'll write liner notes for sure,
but I also want to interview Joanie."
And we started talking and um her
memories of childhood and growing up and
everything were so vivid. I actually had
a dream of a structure of how to tell
that story. So, I called over to her
place and told um Marcy Gensik, who
who's her kind of right-hand person,
that I'd had this dream about what a
structure would be for a movie, Better
Life, though we've never talked about
it. And um but if somebody comes
knocking, come to me first and I'll tell
you this idea and we'll see what
happens." She's like, "They're knocking.
They're knocking all the time." And
Joanie wonders why you've taken so long
to call and ask this question. So, yes,
come over and tell us what your idea is.
And this was about four and a half years
ago. and she said, "Um,
wonderful. Let's spend every Monday
night. Let's talk. You come over here,
we'll talk. You ask me anything you
want. And um I'm I'm I'm here to serve
uh this idea." And so that's what I've
been doing all this time. It's been an
incredibly inspiring time. The most I've
interviewed anybody, the deepest tissue
kind of conversations I've I've had with
any any artist. and um I've just found
it like incredibly invigorating and
can't wait to make the movie.
>> Um is are Mel Street and Anna Taylor Joy
playing her at different parts of her
life?
>> Can't can't confirm that. I wish I
could. And what do you think um like
what is most important to you to um
convey about Joanie Mitchell that maybe
hasn't been conveyed already? like what
what part of her story still don't
people really know about
>> her life from her point of view?
>> Yeah. and the many people along her
path. You know, everybody's kind of
phobic about the the term biopic, but a
a biographical story about somebody, I
always felt, musician or not, should
give you the feeling that you came to
being interested in this person over
like a Jonie Mitchell movie should feel
like a Joanie Mitchell album. Be be good
to the people that have been there as a
fan all along. And that's the best road
to telling a biographical story about a
musician for sure. Like that's the
sensibility I crave. And it's in a movie
now. Yes. And that's the Joanie Mitchell
dream.
>> You know, I have a handful of questions
about your Hollywood career. But before
we get to those, just because I think
it's useful uh practical information for
people, uh give me Glenn Fry's recipe
for a good buzz. Um, it's come into the
room, drink two beers immediately, get a
good buzz going and ride that buzz and
have one more beer, preferably long neck
bud, and do one every 45 minutes. You'll
you will find that you had a great time
and met a lot of wonderful people.
>> Have you tried that?
>> Oh, yes.
>> It works.
>> It does work.
>> Right. So, you don't have to be a member
of the Eagles for that for that. No, no,
it's really it's really just I think the
key thing is the long neck Budweiser.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But he this is this is one of the great
things that was so fun to to to write
about was because Glenn was like a
student of not only how to succeed in a
rock band but also how to carry yourself
and like as a as a teenager. And his
nickname was Teen King. So he totally
saw me as this awkward person and be
like, "Okay, you're getting a good face.
It's kind of getting along. Maybe a
little too long, but it's good. It's
good. I wouldn't do a mustache. What you
got to do is just kind of know that
you've got a quality and uh this girl
you were talking about earlier that you
know likes a better-l looking guy and
whatever. Hey, if she can't smell your
qualifications,
got to move on.
>> Understanding someone's qualities
strikes me as um not dissimilar from
what a director uh has to understand
about people. Are are there actors who
come to mind who who you know you you
understood something about who they were
that maybe they didn't even know was in
there?
>> The thing that comes to mind is Jerry
Maguire.
>> Yeah.
>> I just I always loved how playful Tom
Cruz is as a person. He is. He called me
right after Say Anything came out and
said, "Hey, this is a really good movie.
You made a great movie. Congrat. you got
to do more of these things. This is
really good. I'd love to work with you
someday. Take care. So, I I knew he was
a guy that had kind of a adventurous fun
spirit. Anyway, so I forget it was early
in the process of filming and I had a
whole like, you know, set full of
people. It was SMI, his sports agency.
And this is the scene where, you know,
he he's leaving. He's got like a
goldfish and everything and who's coming
with me and um marching through the
office and I just had this feeling, what
if you fall down? What if you fall down
on your face?
>> Do a pratt fall
>> and do a pratt fall and they're all
there. We had a we had a set full of
people and they're watching Tom Cruz.
How does he do it? How does he act?
How's he What's he going to do? And so I
thought like, okay, let's do one where
you do the Pratt fall and let's see what
happens. And at that point, you're
standing there, you're going like, okay,
I'm telling Tom Cruz to fall on his
face. My bet is that he might do it. And
Tom Cruz goes, "Yes, let's do it. Don't
tell anybody." And he did it. And it was
the oxygen left the room in such a
profound way.
and then he got up and everybody
realized that it was part of the scene
and it got applause. So that was an
example of like kind of seeing a nugget
and asking them to bring it to to bring
it on camera and gener I would say 90%
of the time you ask for that you'll get
it. Um Tom Cruz uh was in Jerry
Magcguire and then of course he was in
Vanilla Sky also. And um you know I I
rewatched those movies in uh advance of
talking to you and I think it's uh um
>> I'm going to sound like a doofus, but uh
because it's not like Tom Cruz is
lacking in uh uh public adoration, but I
think um
>> now when you spell doofus, do you spell
doofus with two O's or duf u? I've never
even considered spelling it with du fu.
Do is that how you spell it?
>> Good. No, I double o.
>> Just checking. Just checking.
Um, but I I rewatched those films and I
and I was sort of curious for your
perspective on Tom Cruz's career over
the last 10 years or so because he's
really focused on these sort of uh
spectacular films, the Mission
Impossible movies, which are very
different from the kinds of
characterdriven
uh uh performances that he gave for you.
Do you think just his his interests as a
storyteller have diverged from the kind
of work that he was interested in when
he was making films with you? Like how
do you see where he's gone?
I I I see that there's a time coming and
it might have already started
where he's going to seg into character
roles as strongly as he seged into doing
action movies and learning to do action
movies at at in the highest of quality
circumstances.
Um, and that that Paul Newman character
phase that's just around the corner, I
think will fry people's minds in a way.
I think what Tom does is becomes an
absolute student in whatever he's
attaching himself to. And so, like, of
course, he's going to have the best
stunts. Of course, he's going to have
done the work to know how to do this and
that. But when that Paul Newman phase
starts again, he's going to apply the
same kind of passion to it. It's going
to be amazing. I'll tell you one little
thing. Um, I have the same lawyer as
Clint Eastwood and uh Bruce Rymer is his
name and he invited me to a dinner
party. Um, and and and sat me next to
Clint Eastwood and I was so nervous.
What do you say to Clint Eastwood? So,
I'm sitting there and and Clint Eastwood
leans over and says, "Uh, Tom Cruz." And
I go, "Oh, man. Tom Cruz. I love working
with Tom Cruz." And he goes, "In a
hundred years,
they're going to look back. That's the
career. Tom Cruz's career. That's the
career to watch. When everything melts
away and it becomes, you know, simple
statements of what happened at a certain
time in history, you're going to read
Tom Cruz's name." And and just on the
subject of of seeing things um in actors
that um maybe hadn't been utilized by
other directors, um I'm thinking of uh
John Cusack and Say Anything. There's a
great quote from uh John Mahoney who
played the dad in Say Anything and of
course played um uh Frasier's dad for
years on on Frasier.
He did.
>> John Mahoney has a a line about John
Cusack that he said in an interview
somewhere that say anything is where um
I'm paraphrasing, but Say anything is
where John Cusack discovered his
cusackness. Um and I think that's
exactly right. I think he wanted to dial
down his cusackness. When I met him, he
was like, "I can't do another teen
movie." I'm like, "Oh, it's really not a
teen movie. I swear." I mean, I think
Cusack grew up on that movie in a lot of
ways. He he he'd done um eight men out
and stuff with John Sales, but there was
a a kind of a tortured wisdom about him
in Say Anything that I I loved so much.
The first time I saw him, he was facing
away from me in a in a coffee shop in
Chicago. And he he hadn't even turned
around and I knew he was Lloyd. Then he
turned around and we started talking and
then he said I'm never going to do this
part because I don't want to be that
John Cusack guy again in that way. So
the the making of almost f or the making
of say anything I would say we were we
were fighting with that perception of of
like earlier period QAC and current
throughout the entire making of the
movie into the session where we worked
on sound at the end after the film had
been shot. He's he he watched one of the
scenes and said, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right. I I guess I do get what you
were going for."
>> You know, there's the iconic scene in in
the film where he John Kuzzac's
character holds up the boom box and
Peter Gabriel's in in your eyes plays to
Ioni Sky character. Uh is it is it right
that John Cuz did not want to have to
hold the boom box up?
>> Oh, baby. So, right. He really felt like
it was a subservient act. And um why
does Lloyd have to be a wuss like that?
Like what? No, this is your this is an
epic wuss phase for you. But but really
I think we struggled with how to get
that scene and it was the last scene on
the last day where we got the scene
that's in the movie and it was the
cinematographer llo Kovac's like really
legendary cinematographer who knew that
we'd been battling. We had actually shot
the scene where Cusack had the boom box
on the hood of a car and he was standing
like this saying like, "Well, that's
more that's more what I would do, you
know, and and um I think after we had
shot that for a while, I started
worrying that the executives were going
to see this and yeah, I would get in
trouble." And Llo knew that and leaned
over and whispered in my ear, "Don't
worry, there's no film in the camera."
So he knew we were chasing the grand
moment of holding up the boom box. So on
the last day as we were losing the sun,
he said, "I I found I found a place
across the street that would be good and
the car is parked there. Let's get him
across the street and see if we can get
it." And so we ran across the street.
Cusack said, "Okay, I'll do it." And um
so he's holding out the boom holding out
the boom box literally
kind of pissed that he's having to do it
one more time and you you you knew it
watching it in the in the monitor. That
was the perfect emotion for the scene.
>> In what way are movie stars like
rock stars and in what way are movie
stars different than rock stars? I have
a theory about this but you tell me.
>> They want to be each other. ah
>> they want to be each other. Um one has
all the magnificence that the other one
feels is is just around the corner in
the right circumstance. But they do they
do um they they appreciate the
artfulness and what the other one does.
The difference is
the difference is probably that actors
sometimes have to give up what what's
perceived as the power of what they're
doing
>> right
>> to another person the director. So it's
like they're not actually making the
thing totally whereas a musician
generally is making the thing totally
and possibly working for a tough
producer or something but one perceives
a little more liberty in the other's
job. Um I think from from the uh from
the fans perspective uh the way or a
difference for me is that I think um the
musicians that I really love I really um
identify with personally and I think the
um actors and actresses I love uh it's
more a feeling of uh sort of admiration
or or idolization a little bit. uh
there's more of a a distance there.
Whereas with you know you you know
whether it's Bob Dyler, Bruce Spring,
whomever, like I I feel like they're a
part of me almost in a way in a way that
feels different to me than I feel about
my favorite actors.
>> Super true. And they and they're they've
they've authored more stuff from the
heart that could speak to you personally
as well as a musician. Yeah, it's really
true. But I like doing I like creating a
character in a movie that feels as
inviting to you personally as the way
you just described what a musician can
do for you. It's like if you can get
that feeling from a character in a
movie, you've got it all. And I think
that's one of the reasons why I love
using music in movies so much because
that marriage when that happens is just
like it's everything. who who's an actor
that you've worked with that um set your
uh uh kind of latent uh journalist uh uh
bells ringing who you thought gosh that
would be a good person to write about.
There's something going on there that
I'd like to get to know more about.
>> Oh wow, great question. Well, Penelopey
Cruz was one.
>> Tell me about that.
>> Fascinating in Vanilla Sky
>> person. She was in Vanilla Sky.
Fascinating person. Reads a room like
nobody you've ever seen. I I don't know
that I've ever seen anyone that read The
Room in such a deep tissue way. I
thought she was really fascinating. I
wish I'd written about Philip Seymour
Hoffman.
>> He was another guy was very mysterious
to me, David. He was he was
he didn't want to come in and rehearse,
but he was really sweet about it. And um
I I said to him, this is really
important to me playing Lester Bangs,
like I really need you to come to LA at
least for a couple of days and work on
this stuff. He's like, well, you'll find
you won't need a couple days. I like,
well, I need it. And so he got on a
plane and he came out. He walked in, sat
down,
did all the scenes,
was on a plane two hours later.
He knew his craft. He knew his
instrument. He knew and he had Lester
down. Then this is what's great about
having a collaboration with a with an
actor that doesn't have to be totally on
your wavelength because he he also was
curious about my method of directing and
using music and stuff. So yeah, writing
about that guy, I am bummed that I
didn't get a chance to spend some time
with him. I still haven't seen the
profile where they really pulled the
curtain back on Phil Hoffman. I I
probably should look harder. Most people
are not going to understand this
reference, but it doesn't matter because
you're going to understand it. I'd like
to now enter the Lester Bangs Lou Reed
portion of the interview.
>> Okay, let's let's go down that hallway
and turn into that room.
>> Um, so so your your transition to
Hollywood really started with the um you
know the screenplay to Fast Times at
Ridgemont High, that movie sort of
inarguable teen classic. uh the first
movie you wrote and directed and say
anything. Another I think inarguable
teen classic maybe with doesn't even
need the uh term teen uh put in front of
it. Um thanks and then then really just
kind of like a
>> you sound like me trying to talk to KAC
about why you should do the movie.
>> There's forget the teen part.
>> Forget the teen.
>> Forget it.
>> And then it's really just a a pretty
amazing run. So, it's singles, Jerry
Maguire, Almost Famous, um, Vanilla Sky,
which is, I think, 2001, which some
people might quibble with, but, uh, uh,
yeah,
>> but, you know, made money, uh, you know,
is it certainly a bold, uh, film. Um,
>> wears well over time, I feel. Go ahead.
Um, since Vanilla Sky, it's been uh
Elizabeth Town, We Bought a Zoo, Aloha,
uh, the TV series Roies. Um, which, you
know, I'm sure they have their fans, but
I don't think anyone would would really
argue that they're on the level of the
work that came before. Um, something
changed there. And h how do you
understand that shift?
I think some of that was taking time to
raise two boys and um really investing
time in that my sons Curtis and William
and and just like building for the
future in a lot of ways and I actually
appreciate the question because I've
thought about it too and I think there
are waves you go through as a writer
where you feel connected to things that
you really need to write about and have
the skills to do it properly And then
there there are times where as Billy
Wilder says, you know, you you want to
chase the batting average of of the left
fielder in the Dodgers, you know, where
like if you get close to a 500 season,
you might be a legend. I think all the
movies that you mentioned, including
Roies, um the series, they have pockets
of stuff that I'm super proud of and are
part of a growth step that I think is
still happening. We bought a zoo. I'm
I'm really happy with We Bought a Zoo.
We Bought a Zoo
speaks more to me over time than many of
the other things I've done. My mom
thought We Bought a Zoo was
one of the very best. I know the title
is daunting and kind of sends people
into another place when they see the
title. It's like, hm, maybe I'll choose
something else tonight, but We Bought a
Zoo has a misleading title, I think, in
many ways. Well, I mean, it is what the
movie is about.
>> It is what the movie is about, but it's
also about, you know, a a guy that
follows his instincts. But yeah, I mean,
I went to Hawaii not too long ago. Well,
it was a while ago because Don Ho was
still alive. And I went to see Don Hoe
and there's like a line to get your CD
by Don Ho signed after the show. So, I'm
in the line and I get up to him and I
have my CD and I say, "Hey, Don, it's to
to Cameron." And he goes, "How long ago
did you retire?" And I'm like, retire.
I'm years away from retiring. But it was
at that moment that I was like, "Oh
[__] man. I got to pick up the pace
here because Don Hoe thinks I'm in
retirement." And um I've never I've
never felt more um I don't know, excited
about telling a story. And I think the
Joanie Mitchell movie is exactly the
right story to be telling right now. So,
you know, it's it's one long adventure
that I'm very proud of. Um, I think we
can go deeper. Uh, let's go deeper. The
first, uh, uh, the first thing you said
in in response to the question was, uh,
about sort of taking time to raise your
sons. Um, and can you just unpack that
for me a little bit? Are you suggesting
that sort of what you maybe needed, uh,
to function as an artist, it was
intention with being a dad? Was your uh,
uh, was your attention pulled in a
different direction? Like, why is that
where you went with your answer? kind of
I'll tell you because when you
when you raise a child you can no longer
call yourself a kid I think and so that
was entree into like you know what you
can do to make the world a better place
through these people that you brought
into the world and I thought every day
was an important learning process. It
was a little different than waking up in
the morning and just getting right into
transcribing interviews or writing all
day long. Nobody gonna knock at your
door because you're going into that
hallowed place where creativity happens.
No, you have to kind of you you have to
parcel out the time you're going to do
the work. So there's that's one thing,
but the other thing is you see what's
truly important is you want to leave
behind people that carried a message
that that will resonate. And I wanted to
learn about that for a while and write
with that in my heart. And a lot of the
stuff didn't come out or hasn't come
out. Um there's a a movie about Marvin
Gay that I spent many years working on
trying to get made. Right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And there's like so much, you
know, personal writing in that. But I
believe everything kind of works the way
it should. I love being a parent and and
learning how to like um you know,
schedule your life emotionally,
but you're not defined by your hits, nor
are you defined by your misses. And that
was what I learned from Billy Wilder,
>> which of course you put together a great
book of your interviews with Billy
Wilder. Um, you know, in Conversations
with Billy Wilder, there's a part where
um you're talking about Jack Lemon in
The Apartment and why he's so good in
it. And uh you say,
>> you know, it's something like I think
you're talking about his performance.
You say something like one inch to the
right or to the left and the movie is
lost in pathos or sweetness. And um I
think that after Vanilla Sky, for
whatever reason,
your your writing moved one inch to the
right or left. And I have three theories
about it. Do you want to hear them?
>> Cool. All three, please.
>> You're like, why is this guy telling his
theories for
>> I love it.
>> Uh it just I've been thinking about it a
lot. Uh so here's the first one. The
first one is that um it seems to me that
um almost famous uh was the culmination
of your career uh and and in some ways
your life. It was really what you had
been working towards as as uh as a
storyteller. And then you uh did that
film and you you know you you sang your
song beautifully and that after
maybe there was some
you know struggle to figure out like
what was the what was the next song you
could sing quite so beautifully. Um,
how does that theory grab you?
>> I'm waiting for two and three, too, man.
I want the big picture. I want the big
picture.
>> Okay. The the
>> hit me with the deuce. Come on.
>> Okay. The other one uh or the next one
is that Vanilla Sky is the first film
that you made that was uh you correct me
if I'm wrong, that was um based on
pre-existing material. And uh um so it's
the first time you were working with an
idea that you hadn't self-generated. And
then that film was sort of uh at the
time certainly um the reviews were
pretty mixed, pretty divisive. And I
wondered if that then after if like the
experience of of doing that, you know,
uh made you think or made you feel like,
okay, I'm going that maybe was was
mixed. I need to do something that's
more cam and crow. and you were doing
like Cameron Crow cover versions of of
yourself, like you were writing what you
thought the idea of Cameron Crow was
supposed to be writing. And that
accounts for why like the the some
intangible thing about the writing felt
different to me. And then the third the
third one,
>> bring it, brother. Come on.
>> The third one is um your ex-wife Nancy
Wilson, the lead guitarist in Heart. uh
or I should say ripping lead guitarist
in heart those albums still and her
playing still stands up incredibly well
and
>> incredibly well
>> uh who worked on the music for a lot of
your films. Uh also you two got divorced
in in 2010 and I wondered if um sort of
losing the solidity of that relationship
both sort of emotionally and creatively
affected the work in some way.
Well, all three. Okay. Well, let me tell
you something. Here's what I was
thinking through a lot of of what you
were just saying.
>> Okay.
>> I love being studied that carefully by
you, by anybody. I'm honored. I'm
totally honored. Um, there's elements of
truth in all three. And then there's a
truth that would be four. And I I would
choose four.
>> What's four?
>> And four is life is the best writer. And
sometimes you have to let life
show you a little bit of what that is.
And so I had been living a life that was
pretty
stacked with stuff for a long time. And
uh what was important to me around the
time of I don't know I think post
Vanilla Sky maybe was to let life in a
little bit and let um let your
experiences show you what the next
chapters were going to be like. I did
want to write about relationships as you
age. I did want to write about family
and all that stuff. But you got to take
a break and let that particular kind of
sunlight in to show you what life is
like as that. Like I always loved France
Trufo because he made movies about
growing up. You got to grow up with him.
So I always thought like God I want to
be one of those guys where you people
can kind of grow up with you. So in a
way I took time to grow up. But the one
quibble I will have with this your
spectacular
tray of uh of three theories is I never
wrote to be like Cameron Crowe.
>> Ah
>> I never did that. And I've read that and
I've read I've read where people say
like, "Oh, he's trying to do a Cameron
Crow thing."
>> I'm not sure I know what that is. Maybe
it's something that's heartfelt and and
dialogueheavy or something. I'm still
not sure if it's something like it
matters of the heart are are important
in the story that you tell, but I I
never sat out and tried to write a
Cameron Crow type thing. Um
because I I never appreciated artists
that I felt did that myself. I don't
know. I just that's the one thing where
I thought, well, no, that's not true.
But um yeah, getting bad reviews,
um having people question some of your
stuff, it is it is part of the big ride.
And if you're lucky, you get to stay on
the ride. Um, you know, I read there was
a an article uh about Nancy Wilson in uh
People a few years back and in in there
she said um she's talking about sort of
your divorce and she said, "I think our
relationship became more about the work
than about a real relationship and we
lost track of each other inside the
work." Do you understand what she meant?
>> Yeah, I think that's fair. Tell me about
that. We worked a lot together. So
that was um
I mean let me tell you how fantastic it
is to go into the kitchen and say I need
a Simon and Garfuncle kind of mood
piece.
Would you just put that just put that in
the back of your head for something
because I'm going to need that at some
point. Give me a guitar, she says. You
bring her a guitar. She stands in a robe
in the kitchen first thing in the
morning playing the score that you hear
in Jerry Maguire right off the top of
her head. This is an elixir that
was in all the movies we worked on
together. And um we worked, you know, 36
hours a day on that stuff. and it
probably wasn't great for the marriage,
but um I think what she's saying is
there was a a magic to the time that we
had in Seattle when the Seattle music
was exploding and it was all just in our
neighborhood and it was a very quiet but
noisy time. And then when we moved back
down to LA, it became
a noisy, noisy time. And I don't know
that we flourished perfectly. But I'm
very proud of our two sons. And Nancy uh
you know, we have a great relationship.
Na Nancy's out there playing the best
guitar ever
now. Right now. um you know even even as
a you know a younger man you were
writing these um characters that were
basically uh I think of them as battered
idealists you know Jerry Maguire uh
Lloyd Doppler and Say anything is is
like that and you know since you wrote
those characters
you know you've you've just experienced
so much more life so much more so many
more ups so many more downs pounds and
and I wonder do you think about those
characters any differently at 68 than
you did when you wrote them? And then
also sort of what is the state of your
own idealism?
>> The fires of my own idealism are burned
brightly. It's kind of how I live. Um I
love all those characters. Is that
crazy? I love them because they're part
of my family in a way. I lived with them
and I still live with them and I get
Steve Dunn from singles. I That guy
still speaks to me. They all still speak
to me in a way. Um because I just I love
characters and I love building worlds. I
love it. And um it does make me just
sitting here talking it does make me
want to capture things that h are
happening in my life right now too. And
so I just want to speed it up a little
bit because it it kind of takes me a
while to like finish and hone a script
and stuff. But yes, I want to be that
person that writes about my age group in
some way or another uh as I get older.
So I have some catching up to do.
Cameron, you had me at hello.
Um thank you very much for taking all
the time. I really appreciate it.
>> You bet. You bet. Thanks, David.
[Music]